---
layout: about
permalink: /
title: <strong>Kirsten Widner</strong>
menu: about
description: kwidner@emory.edu
navigation_weight: 1

profile:
  align: left
  image: WidnerEmoryWindowProfile.jpg
  address:

news: false
social: true
---

Hello! My name is Kirsten Widner, and I am an attorney and PhD candidate
in political science at Emory University. I study representation in the
policymaking process. My research is driven by a desire to understand
how we make public policy for people who lack traditional political
power. The seeds of this interest were sown in my work as a lawyer and
policy advocate for children in the child welfare and juvenile justice
systems.

My dissertation examines the role nonprofit advocacy organizations play
in providing political representation for people without the right to
vote. For this project, I conducted an original survey of over 600
nonprofit advocacy organizations and in-depth interviews with over 50 of
the respondents. I find that the multiple levels of political
disadvantage facing the groups that currently lack the right to vote in
the United States -- children, non-citizens, and people disenfranchised
due to felony convictions or mental incapacity -- lead the organizations
that represent them to emphasize different funding sources and advocacy
techniques that organizations representing other groups.

Other projects examine how increasing diversity in state legislatures
affects attention to policy issues affecting the most marginalized
groups and the role of the courts in protecting the interests of the
politically disadvantaged.
