---
layout: page
permalink: /research/
menu: research
title: Research
description:
navigation_weight: 2
---

**Advocacy for the Powerless: How Nonprofit Advocacy Organizations
Advance the Interests of the Unenfranchised**

Advocacy organizations provide important policy representation for the
nearly one-third of the population of the U.S. that lacks the right to vote -- children,
non-citizens, and people disenfranchised due to felony convictions or
mental incapacity. Working on behalf of the unenfranchised poses unique
challenges for these organizations. Existing scholarship fails to
recognize these challenges and tends to treat all "public interest" or
"citizens' groups" as similar. This paper argues that unenfranchised
people's lack of traditional political power leads the advocacy
organizations that represent them to prioritize different advocacy
strategies than organizations representing other social groups. Using an
original survey of nonprofit advocacy organizations, this paper finds
evidence that advocacy organizations working on behalf of the unenfranchised allocate more of their policy efforts to media advocacy and litigation than do other interest groups.

**Legislating at the Intersections: Race, Gender, and Representation**
\[<https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1065912919858405>\]
with Beth Reingold and Rachel Harmon. Forthcoming in *Political Research
Quarterly*.

Record numbers of women, and in particular women of color, are gaining
elective office across the country. This article explores how their
presence in legislative bodies might make a difference in policy agendas
and legislative advocacy, especially at the intersections of race and
gender. Leveraging original datasets of Democratic lawmakers and the
bills they sponsor in fifteen U.S. state houses in 1997 and 2005, we
examine multiple forms of *race--gender policy leadership* and how it is
tied to legislators' race--gender identity. Testing theories of
intersectional representation, we find that women of color often are the
most likely race--gender policy leaders. Indeed, our measures of
race--gender policy leadership reveal the distinctive representational
work of women of color, which traditional, single-axis measures of
legislative activity on behalf of women *or* racial/ethnic minorities
cannot.

**Who Benefits from Religious Exemptions? The Politics of RLUIPA Cases
in U.S. Federal Courts** with Ben Hertzberg, Daniel Arnon, and Micah
Swartzman

What are the effects of religious exemptions? Some claim that they
empower adherents of majority religions, further privileging them.
Others argue that where American public institutions are biased in favor
of majority religions, exemptions enable adherents of minority religions
to demand accommodation. We test these claims, and the possibility that
religious exemption decisions are driven by judges' ideological
preferences, by considering the universe of religious exemptions cases
adjudicated under the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons
Act (RLUIPA) of 2000. The data support those who see exemptions as
protecting minority religions; adherents of a minority religion are ten
percent more likely to win an exemption suit in federal courts. In
contrast, bias in favor of majority religions and judicial ideology fail
to explain these cases' outcomes.

**In Defense of the Black/White Binary: Reclaiming a Tradition of Civil
Rights Scholarship**
\[<https://scholarship.law.berkeley.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1100&context=bjalp>\]
with Roy L. Brooks, *Berkeley Journal of African-American Law & Policy*
12(1): 107-144.

Critical theorists have argued for the abandonment of Black/White binary
-- the idea that Black/White relations are central to our understanding
of racial issues in American. We argue that the unique history of Black
people in America warrants special attention in the study of law and
policy, and that this special attention does not relegate other racial
or ethnic groups to second class status.

**Continuing the Evolution: Why California Should Amend Family Code
Section 8616.5 to Allow Visitation in All Postadoption Contract
Agreements**
\[<https://digital.sandiego.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2781&context=sdlr>\]
*San Diego Law Review* 44(2): 355-386.

This Comment argues that California should continue the evolution of its
statutory scheme by: (1) allowing and enforcing visitation terms in all
adoption agreements that meet the statutory requirements of
voluntariness and the best interests of the child, and (2) requiring
that the consent process inform all birth parents of the possibility of
these agreements. These changes were subsequently adopted by the
California State Legislature.